DOCS-#3088: Document `modin.pandas.dataframe` (#3109)
modin-project/modin: docs/flow/modin/pandas/dataframe.rst

:orphan:

DataFrame Module Overview
"""""""""""""""""""""""""

Modin's ``pandas.DataFrame`` API
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

> Modin's ``pandas.DataFrame`` API is backed by a distributed object providing an identical

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Modin's ``pandas.DataFrame`` API is backed by a distributed object providing an identical
```

API to pandas. After the user calls some ``DataFrame`` function, this call is internally
rewritten into a representation that can be processed in parallel by the partitions. These
results can be e.g., reduced to single output, identical to the single threaded
pandas ``DataFrame`` method output.

..
    TODO: add link to the docs with detailed description of queries compilation
    and execution ater DOCS-#2996 is merged.

Public API
----------

.. autoclass:: modin.pandas.dataframe.DataFrame

Usage Guide
'''''''''''

> The most efficient way to create Modin ``DataFrame`` is to import data from external

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The most efficient way to create Modin ``DataFrame`` is to import data from external
```

storage using the highly efficient Modin IO methods (for example using ``pd.read_csv``,
see details for Modin IO methods in the :doc:`separate section </flow/modin/engines/base/io>`),
but even if the data does not originate from a file, any pandas supported data type or

> ``pandas.DataFrame`` can be used. Internally, the ``DataFrame`` data is distributed across all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``pandas.DataFrame`` can be used. Internally, the ``DataFrame`` data is divided into
```

Author: Actually, `distributed across` seems to me more appropriate here than `divided into`, so let's ask another opinion. @devin-petersohn which option do you prefer?

Reviewer: A partition implies a portion of the whole data so `distributed across` seems to me confused. Data can be distributed across nodes, but not across partitions themselves, I think.

Reviewer 2: `distributed across partitions` doesn't make sense, but `distributed across CPUs and/or machines` or `divided into partitions` does. I prefer to keep the `distributed` language personally, but I think @amyskov can make the final decision.

Author: Ok, i see, so let's apply @YarShev suggestion.

> partitions, which usually corresponds to the number of the user's hardware CPUs. If needed,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
partitions, which number along an axis usually corresponds to the number of the user's hardware CPUs. If needed,
```

the number of partitions can be changed by setting ``modin.config.NPartitions``.

Let's consider simple example of creation and interacting with Modin ``DataFrame``:

.. code-block:: python

    import modin.config

>     # This explicitely sets the number of partitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # This explicitly sets the number of partitions
```

    modin.config.NPartitions.put(4)

    import modin.pandas as pd
    import pandas

    # Create Modin DataFrame from the external file
    pd_dataframe = pd.read_csv("test_data.csv")
    # Create Modin DataFrame from the python object
    # data = {f'col{x}': [f'col{x}_{y}' for y in range(100, 356)] for x in range(4)}
    # pd_dataframe = pd.DataFrame(data)
    # Create Modin DataFrame from the pandas object
    # pd_dataframe = pd.DataFrame(pandas.DataFrame(data))

    # Show created DataFrame
    print(pd_dataframe)

    # List DataFrame partitions. Note, that internal API is intended for
    # developers needs and was used here for presentation purposes
    # only.
    partitions = pd_dataframe._query_compiler._modin_frame._partitions
    print(partitions)

    # Show the first DataFrame partition
    print(partitions[0][0].get())

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    [<modin.engines.ray.pandas_on_ray.frame.partition.PandasOnRayFramePartition object at 0x000002F4ABDFEC10>]
    [<modin.engines.ray.pandas_on_ray.frame.partition.PandasOnRayFramePartition object at 0x000002F4ABDFED00>]
    [<modin.engines.ray.pandas_on_ray.frame.partition.PandasOnRayFramePartition object at 0x000002F4ABDFEDF0>]]

    # The first DataFrame partition
    
            col0      col1      col2      col3
    0   col0_100  col1_100  col2_100  col3_100
    1   col0_101  col1_101  col2_101  col3_101
    2   col0_102  col1_102  col2_102  col3_102
    3   col0_103  col1_103  col2_103  col3_103
    4   col0_104  col1_104  col2_104  col3_104
    ..       ...       ...       ...       ...
    60  col0_160  col1_160  col2_160  col3_160
    61  col0_161  col1_161  col2_161  col3_161
    62  col0_162  col1_162  col2_162  col3_162
    63  col0_163  col1_163  col2_163  col3_163
    64  col0_164  col1_164  col2_164  col3_164

    [65 rows x 4 columns]

As we show in the example above, Modin ``DataFrame`` can be easily created, and supports any input that pandas ``DataFrame`` supports.

> Also note that tuning of the ``DataFrame`` partitioning can be done by setting of a single config.

Reviewer: What do you mean by `tuning of the ``DataFrame`` partitioning can be done by setting of a single config.`? Can you elaborate?

Author: This phrase refers to setting partitions number in the example by `modin.config.NPartitions.put(4)` and this line has comment about it purpose. What exactly needs to be elaborated?

Reviewer: I thought you mean setting the number of partitions can only be done once in a workflow, what is not true. Maybe, rephrase like this?
```
Also note that tuning of the ``DataFrame`` partitioning can be done by just setting a single config.
```

Author: Ok, i see, applied your suggestion.
